# Data Science Portfolio
Repository containing portfolio of Data Science Projects 2-5 completed during my fellowship at Metis Fall 2019 Data Science Bootcamp.
### Contents

- [Project 2: Predicting Student Loan Debt](https://github.com/csturkey13/DS-Projects/tree/master/Project%202): A model to predict the amount of student loan debt given criteria from the U.S. College Scorecard using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the features that accounted for 47.9% of the variability in student loan debt.

- [Project 3: Predicting Employee Churn](https://github.com/csturkey13/DS-Projects/tree/master/Project%203/Final): The cost of replacing an employee is quite expensive, but what if you could identify employees at risk of churning before they put in their notice? With this question in mind, I used feature engineering and a Classification Model (Logistic Regression) to classify employees as churn/no churn based on HR data generated by IBM.

- [Project 4: Drugs.com Recommender](https://github.com/csturkey13/DS-Projects/tree/master/Project%204): Drugs.com allows users to post reviews of prescription and over the counter (OTC) drugs while also using a rating system (1-10) of how effective/ineffective the drug was at treating their condition. After reading a few of the reviews (and also from personal experience), I observed that prescription drugs can be really effective for some people and really ineffective for others. However, the patient's condition doesn't go away, they will need an alternative. Using Natural Language Processing (NLP), I used unsupervised learning to group similar reviews together in order to create a recommendation system for similar prescription drugs that treat the same condition. If one prescription doesn't work out, a patient can use this recommendation system to explore potential alternatives.

- [Project 5: DonorsChoose.org Prescreening Applications](https://github.com/csturkey13/DS-Projects/tree/master/Project%205): Running on a lean staff, DonorsChoose.org hand screens each application for classroom projects. Using a combination of NLP and a Classification model (RandomForest), the staff could use the model on a majority of the project applications using past project application data (was fully funded/not fully funded) to predict which projects to post on its website.
